And welcome back.
In this video we're going to be
learning about self-closing tags.
Up until this point we use all tags that have the
opening and then the closing which has this slash
in it.
Now there are a few elements that don't have this
syntax but they have something called 'self-closing
tags'.
So let's say here between Fuji and Honeycrisp
I want to have a bit of a line break.
I can use something like 'br' here
and if I save this and I 'refresh',
we have a little line break.
There's also 'hr' which is horizontal line,
so you get a horizontal line
for refresh right through here.
'hr' tags just have one single
element, self-closing.
You might also see something like this, and that
is something from the old version of HTML, which
uses xHTML.
You can read up more about it on your own, but just
keep in mind that with HTML5, we are just going
to be using this.
So obviously on web pages
there's going to be images.
So would it be nice if there was
a picture of a Fuji apple here.
Let's see how we can do it.
So with an image tag, and let's think about this
critically if I didn't know what an image tag is and
I wanted to add an image to my HTML file, well
if I Google "image HTML tag", again one of the
first websites that pops up is the W3 Schools, and
I'll show you exactly how an image tag works.
If I click try yourself you can see it in action
you can play around with but you can see here that
an image tag is a self-closing tag.
There's no closing image tags
just just one single tag.
And if I do image [img] and we have something called
source here and this is something called an attribute
some HTML tags can have something called attributes,
which add special properties to the specific
tag.
So an attribute always has a value attached
to it and the image source [img src].
That's what it stands for,
tells us where the image is coming from.
So let's find an image of fuji apple let's go, images, oh, I
like this one. Let's do 'view image' and give us the link
of where this image is.
So I'm just going to copy
that paste it in here.
Let's go back to our example here we can see here
that there's a few more attributes that we can add
to an image tag.
But for now we can just
leave it here close the tag.
You can see that Sublime Text has the nice highlighting
for us and if I save this go back to our website
and I click refresh I get this massive fuji
apple, and obviously that's that's too big.
Ideally we can make it a little bit smaller again
if we go back to the example you'll see that there
has width and height so we can actually just copy
that and add it to the attributes so that we specify
the width.
And this is in pixels [px].
So I save that, I refresh and look at that we
have the fuji apple, it looks very very pretty.
Let's add the picture
for honeycrisp as well.
I'm going to do this fast.
You should be able to just copy this image.
And again we want to make it the same size as the
previous one so I'm going to leave the width and height
the same.
And let's find a - an image
of a honeycrisp apple.
So, 'honeycrisp apple' and 'Images',
it looks quite similar doesn't it?
And 'view image' let's copy the
source from here going to save that.
Go back to our website and
let's refresh and look at that.
We have our apples.
So, image tags are very very useful.
You might be asking yourself,
"what does the 'alt' attribute mean?"
And this is something that you can actually read up
on so if you scroll down if you look over here you
can see that 'alt' specifies
an alternate text for an image.
So again, this is something that can be used by screen
readers and you can define what the image is of.
So, here the 'alt' is "smiley face".
So when a screen reader reads it, it says, "Oh and
this part of the website there is a smiley face".
Just to recap, we learned about
self-closing tags - which don't require
two of them, so an opening and closing tag.
Just a single one.
So we use 'br' for line break.
We used 'hr' for a horizontal line, and then we have
the image tag that also has to have some attributes.
So, it has a source which tells
us where to grab the image from,
it has a width attribute, a height attribute,
with a value of 42 pixels, and 42.
All right I'll see you in the next lesson.